Generalize sharpib (#505)
lethe-cfd/lethe: doc/source/parameters/resolved_cfd-dem/resolved_cfd-dem.rst

* The ``ib particles pvd file`` parameter is the file's name that will be created to animate the particles. This file stores all the variables calculated for each of the particles. This file is compatible with Paraview.

> To sharpen the immersed boundary of each particles, a layer of cells around the immersed boundary can be refined forming a near-particle zone of refined cells. An effective radius, dependent on the shape, is calculated at the shape initialization. Its definition is chosen so that the refinement zone is close to the surface. For example, a torus' effective radius is the ring thickness radius. For a rectangle (or box), it's the mean of the half-lengths. For a sphere, it's the actual radius.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sharpen the immersed boundary of each particle, a layer of cells around the immersed boundary can be refined forming a near-particle zone of refined cells. An effective radius, dependent on the shape, is calculated at the shape initialization. Its definition is chosen so that the refinement zone is close to the surface. For example: the torus' effective radius is the ring thickness. For the rectangle (or box), it is the average of the half-lengths. For a sphere, it is the actual radius.
```

> To sharpen the immersed boundary of each particle, a layer of cells around the immersed boundary can be refined forming a near-particle zone of refined cells. An effective radius, dependent on the shape, is calculated at the shape initialization. Its definition is chosen so that the refinement zone is close to the surface. For example: the torus' effective radius is the ring thickness. For the rectangle (or box), it is the average of the half-lengths. For a sphere, it is the actual radius.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To sharpen the immersed boundary of each particle, a layer of cells around the immersed boundary can be refined forming a near-particle zone of refined cells. An effective radius, dependent on the shape, is calculated at the shape initialization. Its definition is chosen so that the refinement zone is close to the surface. For example: the torus' effective radius is the ring thickness. For the rectangle (or box), it is the average of the half-lengths. For a sphere, it is the radius of the sphere.
```
Good thinking here. I think it will be relevant to add the effective definition of the effective radius for each shapes where you define the shapes.

* The ``refine mesh inside radius factor`` parameter defines the lower factor by which the effective radius will be multiplied to establish if a cell can be pre-refined. If the absolute distance to the surface is below :math:`(1 - \textit{factor}) * \textit{radius}`, then one of the two conditions is met. For example: with a particle radius of 2 and the inside radius factor of 0.8, the inside radius of the refinement zone would be 1.6 (see example below).

> * The ``refine mesh outside radius factor`` parameter defines the higher limit of the near-particle refinement zone. If the absolute distance to the surface is below :math:`(\textit{factor} - 1) * \textit{radius}`, then the second condition is met. For example: with a particle radius of 2 and the outside radius factor of 1.5, the outside radius of the refinement zone would be 3 (see example below).

Reviewer 2: I understand what you are trying to explain here, but it's not explained in an intuitive fashion. Can you try to make it clearer. Maybe you can do that by concluding with an example.

.. warning::

> 	When you want to use the near-particle refinement zone around particles, the mesh adaptation type used must be ``kelly``, otherwise no near-particle refinement will happen. See :doc:`../cfd/mesh_adaptation_control` for more details on adaptative mesh refinement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	The ``mesh adaptation type`` must be ``kelly`` to use the near-particle refinement zone around particles, otherwise, no near-particle refinement will happen. See :doc:`../cfd/mesh_adaptation_control` for more details on adaptative mesh refinement.
```

.. note::
	The refined cells are all those for which at least one of the degrees of freedom (dof) location satisfies both the ``refine mesh inside radius factor`` and the ``refine mesh outside radius factor`` thresholds. Each application of the refinement zone reduces the size of the elements by a factor two.

.. note::

> 	This near-particle zone will be systematically refined at each refinement step until reaching the ``max refinement level`` parameter (:doc:`../cfd/mesh_adaptation_control`).

Reviewer 2: The more I see this, the more I am starting to think that "particle" is maybe not the right name for this and transitioning to something like "solid" would be more appropriate. Not for now, but to keep in mind in the long term.

* The ``pressure x``, ``pressure y``, and ``pressure z`` parameters are used to define the X, Y, and Z coordinate offset of the pressure reference point relative to the center of the particle. These parameters are used when the ``assemble Navier-Stokes inside particles`` parameter is set to true to define the pressure reference point.

* The ``type`` parameter is used to define the geometry type of the particle. The alternatives in 2D are: ``sphere``, ``ellipsoid``, ``rectangle``. In 3D, in addition to the previous shapes, alternatives include: ``cone``, ``death star``, ``cut hollow sphere``, ``torus``.

* The subsection ``solid arguments`` is used to define the parameters of the solid in the form of a tri-components function. The arguments, which must be written in triplets, are:
    * Sphere: radius, [none], [none];

    * Rectangle: x half length, y half length, z half length;

    * Ellipsoid: x radius, y radius, z radius;

    * Torus: torus radius, torus thickness radius, [none];

    * Cone: tan(base angle), height, [none];

    * Cut Hollow Sphere: radius, cut height, wall thickness;

>     * Death Star: sphere radius, hole radius, distance between centers.

Reviewer 2: Why use triplets? It would be a lot better to use a list of strings and, depending on the shape and the number of arguments required, parse the arguments. This way you could have a variable number of arguments depending on the shape. You can look at the DEM list insertion mechanism to see how this can be done (or come talk to me, I'll show you the code :) )

* The ``inertia`` parameter is used to define one of the diagonal elements of the rotational inertia matrix. Since we are defining spherical particles, we assume a uniform distribution of mass, and as such, all the diagonal elements of the rotational inertia matrix are the same.

* The ``pressure x``, ``pressure y``, and ``pressure z`` parameters are used to define the X, Y, and Z coordinate offset of the pressure reference point relative to the center of the particle. These parameters are used when the ``assemble Navier-Stokes inside particles`` parameter is set to true to define the pressure reference point.

* The ``type`` parameter is used to define the geometry type of the particle. The alternatives in 2D are: sphere, ellipsoid, rectangle. Additional alternatives include: cone, death star, cut hollow sphere, torus.

* The subsection ``solid arguments`` is used to define the solid parameters in the form of a tri-components function. The arguments, which must be written in triplets, are:

> 

Author: Great tip! I wasn't satisfied with the output before

    * Sphere: radius, [none], [none];

    * Rectangle: x half length, y half length, z half length;

    * Ellipsoid: x radius, y radius, z radius;

    * Torus: torus radius, torus thickness radius, [none];

    * Cone: tan(base angle), height, [none];

    * Cut Hollow Sphere: radius, cut height, wall thickness;

    * Death Star: sphere radius, hole radius, distance between centers.

> 

Reviewer 3: maybe there should be a note saying : since it needs to be a triplet, you may add any integer value in the [none] places but they won't be used.

Reviewer 3: I know this implies a bit of work, but maybe it would be clearer to use variable names and figures with the shapes to show the parameters?

Reviewer 2: @CaroleAnneDaunais That's going to get complicated real quick. I think it's best to resort to something like the dealii grid generator where a string list is parsed and we follow the documentation to know the arguments.
We can keep examples for multiples shapes to illustrate the principle.

* The subsection ``omega`` defines the initial value of the particle rotational velocity if the parameter ``integrate motion=true``. Otherwise, it defines the particle's rotational velocity at all times. This rotational velocity is expressed as a function that can evolve in time. Each component of the ``Function expression`` corresponds to the value of its component in the X, Y, and Z direction. It's important to note that even the 2D solver uses the rotational velocity in 3D. In that case, it will only use the Z component of the rotational velocity.

> * The subsection ``orientation`` defines the initial value of the particle angular position around each of the axes X, then Y and then Z.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The subsection ``orientation`` defines the initial value of the particle's angular position around each of the axes X, then Y, and lastly Z.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure if that is what you meant here

> 

Author: It's XYZ, but if there is a better convention we can talk about it

> 

Author: I added a warning box to explain how it is defined

> .. note::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning::
```

    It's important to note that even the 2D solver uses the rotational velocity in 3D. In that case, it will only use the Z component of the rotational velocity, but all three should be defined.

* The ``inertia`` parameter is used to define one of the diagonal elements of the rotational inertia matrix. Since we are defining spherical particles, we assume a uniform distribution of mass, and as such, all the diagonal elements of the rotational inertia matrix are the same.

* The ``pressure x``, ``pressure y``, and ``pressure z`` parameters are used to define the X, Y, and Z coordinate offset of the pressure reference point relative to the center of the particle. These parameters are used when the ``assemble Navier-Stokes inside particles`` parameter is set to true to define the pressure reference point.

> * The ``type`` parameter is used to define the geometry type of the particle. The alternatives in 2D are: sphere, ellipsoid, rectangle. Additional alternatives include: cone, death star, cut hollow sphere, torus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The ``type`` parameter is used to define the geometry type of the particle. The alternatives in 2D are ``sphere``, ``ellipsoid``, and ``rectangle``. Additional alternatives include ``cone``, ``death star``, ``cut hollow sphere``, and ``torus``.
```

> * The subsection ``solid arguments`` is used to define the solid parameters in the form of a tri-components function. The arguments, which must be written in triplets, are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The subsection ``solid arguments`` is used to define the parameters of the solid in the form of a tri-components function. The arguments, which must be written in triplets, are:
```

    * Sphere: radius, [none], [none];

    * Rectangle: x half length, y half length, z half length;

    * Ellipsoid: x radius, y radius, z radius;

    * Torus: torus radius, torus thickness radius, [none];

    * Cone: tan(base angle), height, [none];

    * Cut Hollow Sphere: radius, cut height, wall thickness;

    * Death Star: sphere radius, hole radius, distance between centers.

> The following properties are used if the particle impact one of the boundaries of the domain or another particle. The effective properties used to calculate the impact force are calculated using a harmonic mean of the properties of the particle and the object it impacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following properties are used if the particle collides with one of the boundaries of the domain or another particle. The effective properties used to calculate the impact force are the harmonic average between the properties of the colliding entities.
```

> 	For a particle to be accounted for in the fluid mesh, it has to overlap one or more vertices of this fluid mesh. If the initial mesh is too coarse in regards to the particle size, the particle may not be captured if it does not intersect the outer mesh walls. To avoid this, a box refinement can be added around the particle (See Box refinement documentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	For a particle to be accounted for in the fluid mesh, it has to overlap at least one vertices of this fluid mesh. If the initial mesh is too coarse in regards to the particle size, the particle may not be captured if it does not intersect the outer mesh walls. To avoid this, a box refinement can be added around the particle (See Box refinement documentation).
```

Mesh refinement

> The mesh is refined on multiple occasions during the simulations, and it can be slightly confusing to understand the sequence of refinement. There are 3 pre-simulation refinement steps. The one that occurs first is the **global mesh refinement**. It is set by the ``initial refinement`` parameter in the ``mesh`` subsection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mesh is refined on multiple occasions during the simulations, and it can be slightly confusing to understand the sequence of refinement. There are 3 pre-simulation refinement steps. The first is the **global mesh refinement**. It is set by the ``initial refinement`` parameter in the ``mesh`` subsection.
```

> The second refinement occurring is inside the **box refinement zone**, set by the ``initial refinement`` in the ``box refinement`` subsection. Lastly, the **near-particle zone** is refined, defined by the ``initial refinement`` parameter in the ``particles`` subsection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second refinement is inside the **box refinement zone**, set by the ``initial refinement`` in the ``box refinement`` subsection. Lastly, the **near-particle zone** is refined, defined by the ``initial refinement`` parameter in the ``particles`` subsection.
```
